Aaron Task: While the politicians here in
Washington and the pundits across the country
are debating the state of the economy and
whether or not we need a second stimulus,
Texas Congressman Ron Paul is taking a contrarian
view, as he often does, about what the government
should and shouldn’t be doing for Americans.
If you had won the presidency, and obviously
you ran for the presidency, what would you
be doing differently than what President Obama
has done,
specifically with regard to how he’s handled
the economic crisis?
Ron Paul: I would have done a lot less.
Aaron Task: A lot less?
Ron Paul: I would have allowed the bankruptcies
to occur.
We allow Lehman to go bankrupt so it helps
Goldman Sachs.
And then we bail out AIG that bails out Goldman
Sachs.
The people that were overextended shouldn’t
be bailed out, debt should be liquidated.
The sooner the debt is liquidated the better,
the faster the prices come down.
To really understand the issue you need to
understand 1921.
The recession, depression that came after
World War I one year along because we didn’t
believe in all this intervention.
Hoover messed things up and Roosevelt compounded
it because they believed the government had
to prop up prices, especially price of labor.
It didn’t work.
Aaron Task: If you had been President again,
what role would you give the Federal government
to help the estimated 16 million uninsured
Americans and the millions of American families
who are at risk of losing their homes right
now?
Ron Paul: Well, first you have to stop the
inflation and you have to deregulate,
then you give tax credits to the people who
take care of themselves or to the doctors
who provide the care.
And in a transition, and I talked about this
in the campaign, in a transition because we
have so many people so dependent on government,
say the elderly.
You know, my ideal society isn’t going to
arrive in a week or two. We’re in a four
year presidency.
So my argument is that you can do that; you
can take care of people but never with a deficit,
never by expanding the spending.
It would be by cutting spending and I would
cut money oversees. I’d cut hundreds and
hundreds of billions of dollars of this maintaining
our empire around the world.
Bring that money home, take care of the people
who are dependent and then work for the day
where we can trust freedom once again and
understand how free markets actually operate.
Aaron Task: In the past you’ve lobbied that
the U.S. should be out of the U.N. entirely
and we should disengage.
People look at that and say you want us to
disengage from the world. Isn’t the U.S.
a force of good in the world?
Ron Paul: No, I think it’s the opposite.
I want to really been engaged.
These people who talk about free trade and
engagement around the world have given us
sanctions against Cuba for 40 years.
So, I’m the one that wants to trade and
travel and deal with Cuba. And same way with
Iran. I want to be engaged.
I would say move the navy away from there
and talk to them and say, “Look, let’s
start off with a soccer game or something.”
Aaron Task: Right.
Ron Paul: Let’s break the ice, let’s talk
to people. Let’s not threaten.
What we have in foreign policy is we have
two polices.
One: we threaten and if they do our bidding
we give them a lot of money.
If they don’t we bomb them.
And I say just talk to them and don’t threaten
them and this whole idea that North Korea
is a threat to the United States or the Iranians
are going to drop a bomb
is sort of like the argument that we had to
go into Iraq because Saddam Hussein was going
to bomb Washington DC.
I mean it’s nothing more than war propaganda
to build up the military industrial complex.
Aaron Task: Alright, turning back to the economy,
what is your sense of the state of the U.S.
economy right now?
How optimistic or pessimistic are you?
Ron Paul: Very pessimistic. I think we might
be through a third of it and nobody knows
how long it will last.
Correction is good. We want to correct problems.
But they won’t allow that correction.
The more we do to interfere with the correction
the longer it will last.
The Depression actually ended after World
War 2. The war did not end the Depression.
I remember the war and we lived in very depressed
conditions … wage and price controls and
people didn’t have automobiles.
It was very depressing. It took that long
to liquidate all the debt and bad investment.
Finally then the people came back and they
got jobs and they weren’t in debt and we
went back to work again.
The one good thing that is happening right
now is that people are starting to save money.
The government is frantic, they say, “You
don’t want to save money, we want you to
borrow more money and buy stuff.”
Aaron Task: Right, government says we want
you to spend.
Republican: The government wants you to borrow
more money and buy stuff.
Well no, they don’t need to buy stuff, they
need to save money and pay down debt and then
we’ll go back to work.
And the faster that happens the better it
is for us.
Aaron Task: Right, so obviously hindsight
is 20-20.
But who do you blame, if anybody, for the
housing bubble, the boom and bust we just
went through?
Is it more the Fed, is it Wall Street, is
it the American home owners who bought more
houses than they could afford,
or your Democratic colleague Barney Frank
who a lot of people say it was people like
him who pushed low-income housing and people
couldn’t afford it.
Ron Paul: One person.
Aaron Task: One person?
Ron Paul: Keynes. Keynes did it because he
came into vogue into the 1920s and the 1930s
and believe believed it
and they’ve been living by this and Nixon
put the rubber stamp on for all Republicans,
“We’re all Keynesians now, we all have
been, we believe in deficit financing, printing
press money,” and that created the bubble.
So it’s an intellectual fight. Keynes has
lost this and people are starting to recognize
that the system doesn’t work.
So now the underground thought process right
now… the thinking goes now on the Internet
and elsewhere is Austrian economics. They
have the answers to our problems.
Aaron Task: Right, but it seems that Keynes
is making a comeback, at least here in Washington
DC more recently.
Ron Paul: That’s the last hurrah, it’s
not working, that’s like saying,
“Well we’ve had these two stimulus packages,
that’s all Keynes. We need one more.”
People are laughing at that.
Aaron Task: What is your sense of the political
appetite right now for another stimulus package?
Do you think we’re going to see the Democrats
try?
Ron Paul: Yea, they will and it might get
passed and it might be passed and they’ll
probably wait till next month when the economy
has a few more bad statistics and unemployment’s
11%,
and they will frantically pass more money
and continue to do the things that created
the problem in the first place.